## Reflection on Security +

As I look to begin this project and attempt to document this journey and my learnings I think the best place to start is with the subject that has taken up so much of my time these past few months, the Security + exam. My time in the Columbia Bootcamp was a great start and I am glad that I took it, but I cannot help but realize how insufficient it was in terms of training for this exam. The team was quite clear that it was not the point of the bootcamp. The bootcamp was designed to give a foundational knowledge and hands on access to many of the important technologies in cybersecurity but there was so much more out there for me to learn on my own. 

The areas that I really struggled were Domain's 2 and 1 plus the PBQ's. The second domain was Architecture and Design, while the first was Attacks, Threats and vulnerabilities. I think they presented problems for both similar and different reasons. My struggles with the second domain were mostly because I was attempting to understand secure architecture and configurations without knowing enough about the underlying systems. My struggles with domain 1 were likely heavily tied to not having a good understanding of domain 2. It is hard to distinguish XSS, XSRF, SSRF if you don't truly understand how web apps work and how clients interact with servers. 

I realized a month or two in that my strategy was not working and opted to enroll in the Google Cybersecurity certification course as well as commit to watching as much of Professor Messer's work on Sec+ as possible. Using the practice tests and questions I was able to uncover more specifically where my knowledge gaps were. I had a very surface level understanding of VPN's, cloud architecture concepts and other ideas that prevented me from truly getting the material I was studying.

The PBQ's posed the same issues. One example, a Kerberos troubleshooting flow. I knew that Kerberos was an SSO protocol that utilized a ticketing system to allow for authentication. But, beyond that I was unable to really understand the workflow in a way that would let me answer that specific question. From a high level, sure a user signs in and Kerberos uses tickets to make sure they have access to the resources they should. But it is so much more. First the user is authenticated and the authentication server provides the Ticket Granting Ticket. That ticket is then used by the user to make a request to the Ticket Granting Service, which issues a service ticket. That service is then presented to the server that hosts the actual service the user is trying to use. So yes, kerberos is an SSO protocol that uses tickets. But, it's multiple tickets granting tickets and finally granting access to systems. There is still so much to learn. 

I find myself regretting not starting this blog earlier to help document my day in and day out learning as I went. I think it would have reinforced my learning as well as providing a place to return to to check on my progress. But, perhaps I will go back and add more about previous learnings as I go.

